                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               ADVANCED    MANUFACTURING      OFFICE                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Energy Tips: MOTOR SYSTEMS                                 Motor Systems Tip Sheet #9
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Improve   Motor  Operation                                                     
                                                             Suggested Actions      
     at Off-Design   Voltages                                                       
                                                          ■■ If voltage does not vary more
     Motors are designed to operate within ± 10% of their nameplate rated voltages. When than 3% to 5% but is constantly
     motors operate at conditions of over and undervoltage, motor efficiency and other
                                                            too high or too low, change to a
     performance parameters are degraded.                                           
                                                            different main service  
     There are certain standard utilization voltages for motors. These correspond to (but are transformer tap setting. Adjust
     about 4% lower than) standard service voltages. The voltage difference is established to
                                                            branch or secondary transformer
     allow for a reasonable line voltage drop between the transformer secondary and the point
                                                            tap settings as necessary.
     of use, as shown in Table 1.                                                   
     Motors sometimes come in multivoltage ratings. The different voltages are accom- ■■ If daily voltage variation occurs
     modated by making different connections in the motor terminal box. For 1:2 ratios like at the service entrance, an “auto-
     230/460, the connections change coil groups from parallel to series. For 1:1.73 ratios tap-changer” transformer is
     like 2,300/4,000, the connections change coil groups from delta (for the lower voltage)
                                                            recommended.            
     to wye (for the higher voltage). There is no difference in performance at the different
     voltage ratings because the different connection compensates to put the same total ■■ If voltage is constant at the
     current through each winding turn. Tri-voltage motors (e.g., 208-230/460 volt [V]), are
                                                            service entrance but varies
     designed to produce rated torque at each voltage, but will slip more and operate hotter at
                                                            within the facility due to load
     208 V than at 230 or 460 V. Additionally, some 230/460-V motors are marked “Usable
                                                            variations and distance from the
     on 208 Volts.” Note that the motor nameplate efficiency is measured at rated voltage and
                                                            transformer, replace existing
     may be reduced when operating at a reduced voltage.                            
                                                            conductors with larger ones or
      Table 1. Standard Motor Operating Voltages (Volts)    add parallel conductors as
                                                            allowed by the National Electrical
       Service Voltage 208 240  480   600  2,400 4,160      Code (NEC).             
      Utilization Voltage 200 230 460 575  2,300 4,000    ■■ For single motors attached to
                                                            conventional motor starters,
     What Happens to Motor Performance                      reduce voltage drops by 
                                                            installing power factor correction
     When Voltage Varies?                                                           
                                                            capacitors at the points of use.
     With reduced voltage, torque capability is reduced over the whole accelerating range
     from initial start to full-load speed. This reduces a motor’s ability to produce sufficient ■■ When using a motor with an
     starting torque and increases acceleration times. Full-load speed is only a fraction of
                                                            electronic adjustable speed
     a percent lower than normal, but torque is reduced by the square of the voltage ratio
                                                            drive, the drive can compensate
     (operating voltage/nameplate voltage). A reduction in breakdown torque means the
                                                            for voltage discrepancies as long
     motor has less ability to drive through a brief torque overload without stalling. Low
     voltage caused by high system impedance is exacerbated during starting and acceleration as the input voltage is within the
     when the current is four to eight times the nameplate full-load value. operating range of the drive.
     As shown in Table 2, this power factor improves with undervoltage. This might be seen ■■ Have your service center rewind
     as a benefit, except the reduction in reactive current is more than nullified by the increase
                                                            motors for the actual utilization
     in the total current necessary to deliver the real power at reduced voltage. Higher cur-
                                                            voltage and evaluate the design
     rents lead to increased resistance due to winding heating and power losses (I2R), reduced
                                                            for other ways to improve
     motor efficiency, and possible overheating at rated load conditions.           
                                                            reliability and efficiency.
     Slip also varies as the square of the voltage ratio. Slip is the difference between a
     motor’s actual speed and synchronous speed. Synchronous speed is always 7,200  
     revolutions per minute (RPM) divided by the pole count, for example, 3,600 RPM (two
     poles), 1,800 RPM (four poles), 1,200 RPM (six poles), 900 RPM (eight poles), etc. The
     actual synchronous speed always is the lowest possible synchronous speed above the
     nameplate full-load speed. For example, the synchronous speed for a 1,750 RPM motor