                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               ADVANCED    MANUFACTURING      OFFICE                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Energy Tips: MOTOR SYSTEMS                                 Motor Systems Tip Sheet #5
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Replace  V-Belts  with  Notched                                                
                                                             Suggested Actions      
     or Synchronous    Belt Drives                                                  
                                                          ■■ Conduct a survey of belt-driven
     Approximately one-third of the electric motors in the industrial and commercial sectors equipment. Gather application
     use belt drives.1 Belt drives provide flexibility in the positioning of the motor relative to
                                                            and operating-hour data. Then
     the load. Pulleys (sheaves) of varying diameters allow the speed of the driven equipment
                                                            determine the cost effectiveness
     to be increased or decreased relative to the motor speed. A properly designed belt
                                                            of replacing existing V-belts with
     power-transmission system offers high efficiency and low noise, requires no lubrication,
     and presents low maintenance requirements. However, certain types of belts are more notched belts or synchronous
     efficient than others, offering potential energy cost savings. belts and sprockets.
     The majority of belt drives use V-belts, which use a trapezoidal cross section to create a
                                                          ■■ Consider synchronous belts for
     wedging action on the pulleys to increase friction and improve the belt’s power transfer
     capability. Joined or multiple belts are specified for heavy loads. V-belt drives can have all new installations; the price
     a peak efficiency of 95% or more at the time of installation. Efficiency is dependent on premium is minimal due to the
     pulley size, pulley wear, V-belt alignment, transmitted torque, under or oversizing belts avoidance of conventional
     for load requirements. Efficiency can deteriorate by as much as 5% over time if slippage
                                                            pulley costs.           
     occurs because the belt is not periodically retensioned.                       
     The most important operational and maintenance issue in a V-belt drive is its tension. If ■■ Consider having a power
     belts are too loose, they tend to vibrate, wear rapidly, and waste energy through slippage. transmission specialist determine
     If belts are overtightened, they will show excessive wear. An increased belt load may the energy and cost savings
     shorten bearing life through excessive lateral loading and could possibly result in shaft
                                                            potential from retrofitting all
     failure. The proper tension of a V-belt is the lowest tension at which the belt will not slip
                                                            V-belt drives with synchronous
     at peak-load conditions. After the break-in period, belt tension should be checked every
     3 to 6 months.                                         belts. Synchronous belts rely on
                                                            tooth grip instead of friction to
     A notched belt has grooves or notches that run perpendicular to the belt’s length, which
                                                            efficiently transfer power and
     reduces the bending resistance of the belt. Notched belts can use the same pulleys as
     cross-section standard V-belts. They run cooler, last longer, and are about 2% more provide a constant speed ratio.
     efficient than standard V-belts.                                               
                                                          ■■ Install notched belts where the
     Synchronous belts (also called cogged, timing, positive-drive, or high-torque drive
                                                            retrofit of a synchronous belt is
     belts) are toothed and require the installation of mating grooved sprockets. These belts
                                                            not cost effective.     
     operate with a consistent efficiency of 98% and maintain their efficiency over a wide
     load range.2 In contrast, V-belts have a sharp reduction in efficiency at high torque due
     to increased slippage. Synchronous belts require minimal maintenance and retensioning,
     operate in wet and oily environments, and run slip-free. However, synchronous belts are
     noisier than V-belts, less suited for use on shock-loaded applications, and transfer more
     vibration due to their stiffness.                                              
     Example Energy Savings Calculations                                            
     A continuously operating, 100-horsepower (hp), supply-air fan operates at an average
     motor load of 75% while consuming 527,000 kilowatt-hours (kWh) of electrical energy
     annually. What are the annual energy and dollar savings if a 95% efficient (η) V-belt is
                                               1                                    
     replaced with a 98% efficient (η) synchronous belt? Electricity is priced at $0.08/kWh.
                      2                                                             
     Energy Savings = Annual Energy Use x (1 – η/η )                                
                                 1 2                                                
                 = 527,000 kWh/year x (1 – 95/98) = 16,130 kWh/year                 
     Annual Cost Savings = 16,130 kWh x $0.08/kWh = $1,290                          