                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               ADVANCED    MANUFACTURING      OFFICE                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Energy Tips: MOTOR SYSTEMS                                 Motor Systems Tip Sheet #8
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Eliminate  Excessive  In-Plant                                                 
                                                             Suggested Actions      
     Distribution  System  Voltage   Drops                                          
                                                          ■■ Conduct a voltage drop survey.
     Studies indicate that in-plant electrical distribution system losses—due to voltage Voltage drop information can be
     unbalance, over- and undervoltage, low power factor, undersized conductors, leakage to
                                                            used to determine energy losses
     ground, and poor connections—can account for less than 1% to more than 4% of total
                                                            and excess energy consumption
     plant electrical energy consumption.                                           
                                                            due to loose and dirty  
     In a study at three industrial facilities, average electrical distribution system losses
                                                            connections. Voltage drop
     accounted for 2% of plant annual energy use. Losses due to poor connections    
                                                            measurements should be taken
     represented one-third of these losses and accounted for 40% of the savings after
     corrective actions were taken.                         at each phase. The voltage drop
                                                            is simply the voltage difference
     Inadequate conductor sizing will result in an excessive voltage drop accompanied by
                                                            across the connection. The total
     increased energy losses and reduced motor torque. The National Electrical Code (NEC)
     calls for a 3% limit on voltage drop. Increased resistance due to undersized conductors energy loss in a three-phase
     and poor connections converts electrical energy into heat and imposes additional loads component is determined by
     on the plant distribution system.                                              
                                                            summing the losses for each
     Maintenance of connections is generally referred to as termination maintenance. phase. Limit the load on each
     Termination maintenance is generally a cost-effective electrical distribution system circuit or install larger-than-
     energy savings measure. Causes of poor connections include:                    
                                                            code-minimum conductors if
      • Loose or corroded cable terminals and bus bar connections the in-plant distribution system
      • Poorly crimped connections to conductors            voltage drop still exceeds 3%,
      • Loose, worn, or poorly adjusted contacts in motor controllers or circuit breakers following termination
      • Loose, dirty, or corroded fuse clips on manual disconnect switches. maintenance.
     Distribution system losses due to poor electrical contacts appear as hot spots caused
     by increased resistance or electric power (I2R) losses. These hot spots may be detected
     by infrared thermography or a voltage drop survey. Inexpensive hand-held infrared
     thermometers can quickly and safely reveal hot spots.                          
     Terminations should be regularly inspected. The cost of replacing fuse clips or cleaning
     breaker fingers is low compared with the significant energy savings resulting from such
     measures in addition to the secondary benefits, including less downtime during unsched-
     uled equipment outages and improved safety due to reduced fire hazards.        
     Conducting a Voltage Drop Survey                                               
     A voltage drop survey can usually be done in-house with existing equipment such as a
     handheld voltmeter. Voltage drop measurements should be taken from the input of each
     panel to the panel output for each load. For a typical motor circuit, measure the voltage
     drop from the bus bar to the load side of the motor starter. Compare the magnitude of
     the voltage drop for each phase with the voltage drop for the other phases supplying
     the load. A voltage drop difference of more than 15% indicates that testing should be
     initiated to identify poor circuit connections. Even with good balance, an excessive
     voltage drop indicates that component voltage drop testing should be initiated. Note that
     motor efficiencies are determined at rated voltage with balanced phases. Undervoltage
     operation can result in increased currents, reduced starting torque, and lower efficiency.