                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               ADVANCED    MANUFACTURING      OFFICE                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Energy Tips: MOTOR SYSTEMS                                 Motor Systems Tip Sheet #11
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Adjustable  Speed   Drive                                                      
                                                             Suggested Actions      
     Part-Load   Efficiency                                                         
                                                          ■■ Contact your supplier to
     An adjustable speed drive (ASD) is a device that controls the rotational speed of obtain information about
     motor-driven equipment. Variable frequency drives (VFDs), the most common type of
                                                            drive efficiency as a function
     ASD, are solid-state electronic motor controllers that efficiently meet varying process
                                                            of motor operating speed or
     requirements by adjusting the frequency and voltage of power supplied to an alternating
                                                            drive power output.     
     current (AC) motor to enable it to operate over a wide speed range. External sensors
     monitor flow, liquid levels, or pressure and then transmit a signal to a controller that
                                                          ■■ When VFD part-load     
     adjusts the frequency and speed of the motor to match process requirements.    
                                                            performance values are not
     Variable Torque Loads                                  readily available, use the values
                                                            given in Table 1. Use this
     Pulse-width-modulated (PWM) VFDs are most often used in variable torque applications
     in the 1 to 1,000 horsepower (hp) motor size range. For centrifugal fans or pumps with information to accurately
     no static lift, the fan or affinity laws state that the fluid or airflow provided varies directly determine the energy savings
     with the pump or fan rotational speed. The input power requirement varies as the cube due to the use of VFD versus
     or third power of the speed ratio, as shown in Figure 1. Small decreases in equipment throttle or damper flow control.
     rotating speed or fluid flow yield significant reductions in energy use. For example,
     reducing rotating equipment speed (flow) by 20% can reduce input power requirements ■■ Drive Performance
     by approximately 50%.                                  Variable and constant torque
                                                            loads are expressed in terms of
      hp = hp x (RPM /RPM)3 = hp x (Flow /Flow)3            the shaft horsepower supplied
        2  1    2   1    1    2   1                                                 
      Where:                                                by the motor. A motor “load” is
      hp = driven-equipment shaft horsepower requirement at original operating speed the brake or shaft power
        1                                                                           
      hp = driven-equipment shaft horsepower requirement at reduced speed requirement imposed upon the
        2                                                                           
      RPM = original speed of driven equipment, in revolutions per minute (RPM)     
         1                                                  motor by the driven equipment
      RPM = reduced speed of driven equipment, in RPM                               
         2                                                  divided by the motor’s full
      Flow = original flow provided by centrifugal fan or pump                      
         1                                                  horsepower rating. The load on
      Flow = final flow provided by centrifugal fan or pump                         
         2                                                  the ASD is the actual power
     Figure 1. Power requirement for variable torque loads  supplied by the device (shaft
                                                            horsepower divided by the
     Constant Torque Loads                                  motor efficiency at its load
                                                            point) divided by the drive rated
     A constant torque load is one where the torque requirement is independent of speed.
     Because horsepower requirements equal the product of required torque and speed, input output power. Drive distributors
     power varies linearly with speed for constant torque applications. Examples of constant or manufacturers can provide
     torque loads include cranes, hoists, conveyors, extruders, mixers, positive displacement efficiency values for ASDs as a
     pumps, reciprocating air compressors, and rotary screw air compressors. function of operating speed or
                                                            load for both variable and
     Determining Energy Savings                                                     
                                                            constant torque loads.  
     To establish the energy savings that are possible when a VFD is applied to a variable or
     constant torque load, you must determine the load duty cycle, or percentage of time that
     the driven equipment operates at each system operating point. You must also know the
     efficiency of the variable speed drive and the drive motor when the motor is operating
     partially loaded and at a reduced speed to satisfy variable flow requirements. 
     When considering PWM VFDs, you may use manufacturer’s data or Table 1 to obtain
     efficiency values for drives of various ratings that supply power to motors connected
     to either variable or constant torque loads. Note that motor efficiency is also reduced at
     light loads and when the motor is supplied with a nonsinusoidal waveform.      