                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               ADVANCED    MANUFACTURING      OFFICE                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Energy Tips: MOTOR SYSTEMS                                 Motor Systems Tip Sheet #4
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     The Importance    of Motor  Shaft  Alignment                                   
                                                             Suggested Actions      
     The objective of optimized shaft alignment is to increase the operating life span of
     rotating machinery. To achieve this goal, components that are the most likely to fail must ■■ Check newly installed equipment
     be made to operate within their acceptable design limits. for alignment changes due to
                                                            foundation settling after 3 to 6
     While misalignment has no measurable effect on motor efficiency, correct shaft 
     alignment ensures the smooth, efficient transmission of power from the motor to the months of operation.
     driven equipment. Incorrect alignment occurs when the centerlines of the motor and
     the driven equipment shafts are not in line with each other. Misalignment produces ■■ Check shaft alignment of all
     excessive vibration, noise, coupling, and bearing temperature increases, and premature production-critical equipment
     bearing, coupling, or shaft failure.                   annually.               
                     Types of Alignment                   ■■ Monitor for vibrations and for
                                                            increasing vibration trends as an
          Ideal Alignment          Parallel Misalignment                            
                                                            indication of misalignment.
                                                            Misalignment might be caused
                                                            by foundation settling, 
                                                            insufficient bolt tightening, or
                                                            output shaft faults.    
                     Angular Misalignment                 ■■ Apply predictive maintenance
                                                            techniques, including vibration
                                                            tests and frequency spectrum
                                                            analysis, to distinguish between
                                                            bearing wear, shaft     
                                                            misalignment, or electrically
     There are three types of motor misalignment:                                   
                                                            caused vibrations.      
      • Angular misalignment occurs when the motor is set at an angle to the driven 
       equipment. If the centerlines of the motor and the driven equipment shafts were
       to be extended, they would cross each other, rather than superimpose or run along
       a common centerline. The “gap” or difference in slope of the motor shaft when
       compared with the slope of the stationary machine shaft can have horizontal  
       misalignment, vertical misalignment, or both. Angular misalignment, in particular
       can cause severe damage to the driven equipment and the motor.               
      • Parallel misalignment occurs when the two shaft centerlines are parallel, but not in
       the same line. There are two planes of parallel misalignment as shafts may be offset
       horizontally (displaced to the left or right), vertically (positioned at different eleva-
       tions), or both.                                                             
      • Combination misalignment occurs when the motor shaft suffers from angular   
       misalignment in addition to parallel misalignment.                           
     Couplings                                                                      
     Larger motors are usually directly coupled to their loads with rigid or flexible couplings.
     Rigid couplings do not compensate for any motor-to-driven-equipment misalignment,
     while flexible couplings tolerate small amounts of misalignment. Flexible couplings
     also can reduce vibration transmitted from one piece of equipment to another, and some
     can insulate the driven equipment shaft against stray electrical currents. Even flexible
     couplings have alignment requirements, defined in the instruction sheet for the coupling.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    