                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               ADVANCED    MANUFACTURING      OFFICE                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Energy Tips: MOTOR SYSTEMS                                 Motor Systems Tip Sheet #2
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Estimating  Motor   Efficiency in the Field                                    
                                                             Suggested Actions      
     Some utility companies and public agencies offer rebates to encourage customers to
     upgrade their existing standard efficiency motors to premium efficiency motors. It ■■ Conduct predictive maintenance
     is important to know the efficiency of the existing motor and how it is being used to monitoring and tests to reveal if
     accurately estimate potential annual energy and dollar savings. efficiency is below the original or
     Efficiency is defined as output power divided by input power. By using applicable and nameplate level. Decreased
     acceptable methods and devices, motor efficiency values can be obtained at full and efficiency may be due to:
     part load. This includes testing populations of motors on a dynamometer or measuring
     electrical losses under controlled laboratory conditions. While laboratory testing – Higher winding resistance
     provides a basis for comparison of motor efficiencies, these motor efficiency values compared with either
     should not be interpreted as the actual efficiency of the motor while under load in a
                                                             manufacturer specifications or
     particular application.                                                        
                                                             an earlier measurement. This
     Nevertheless, efficiency should be measured accurately because, as shown in Table 1, a may be caused by motor
     single percentage point of improved efficiency provides significant dollar savings even windings operating at a higher
     for small motors. A quality electric power meter, properly calibrated, can determine temperature than that of the
     motor input power to an accuracy of ±1%. Unfortunately, an inexpensive, portable way
                                                             manufacturer’s resistance
     to measure shaft output power of a motor that is coupled to a piece of equipment, such
                                                             specifications or by rewinding
     as a printing press, does not exist. A further complication is that motor efficiency is
                                                             with smaller diameter wire. Use
     dependent upon loading, power quality, and ambient temperature.                
                                                             a low-resistance ohmmeter
      Table 1. What Is an Extra Percentage Point of Motor Efficiency when measuring winding
      Improvement Worth?                                     resistance values.     
                                                            – Increase in no-load power or
                Motor Efficiency at 75% Load Annual Savings                         
                                                             core losses. Core loss testing
                                                             requires motor disassembly
      Horsepower                   Annual Energy                                    
                 Original   Final            Dollar Savings  and is performed in a motor
                                     Savings,                                       
                 Efficiency Efficiency         $/year        service center.        
                                      kWh                                           
                                                            – Significant current unbalance
         10       92.2      93.2      520       40           when voltage is balanced.
         25       93.8      94.8      1,260     100         – Evidence of rotor cage
                                                             damage.                
         50       95.0      96.0      2,455     195                                 
                                                            – Line voltages that are
         100      95.3      96.3      4,875     390                                 
                                                             unbalanced, overvoltage, or
                                                             undervoltage.          
         200      96.2      97.2      9,575     765                                 
     Note: Based on operation of a 1,800 revolutions per minute (RPM) totally enclosed fan-cooled (TEFC)
     motor with an efficiency 1.0% higher than that of a typical premium efficiency motor with 8,000 hours
     per year of operation, 75% load, and an electrical rate of $0.08/kilowatt-hour (kWh).
     Credible efficiency ratings are normally obtained in a laboratory, following carefully
     controlled dynamometer testing procedures as described in Institute of Electrical and
     Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Standard 112-2004 (Test Method B). Field measurements
     for determining motor efficiency pose challenges that require developing various other
     methods and devices.                                                           