                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               ADVANCED    MANUFACTURING      OFFICE                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Energy Tips: MOTOR SYSTEMS                                 Motor Systems Tip Sheet #13
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Magnetically   Coupled                                                         
                                                             Suggested Actions      
     Adjustable  Speed   Motor   Drives                                             
                                                          ■■ Complete a survey to identify
     Alternating current electric motors rotate at a nearly constant speed that is determined by constant speed motors in your
     motor design and line frequency. Energy savings of 50% or more may be available when plant that drive centrifugal
     fixed speed systems are modified to allow for variable load requirements of a centrifugal pumps with throttling valves or
     fan or pump.1                                                                  
                                                            recirculation (bypass) lines or
     Loads that vary by 30% of full load over time offer good opportunities for cost-effective centrifugal fans equipped with
     adjustable speed drive (ASD) retrofits. Market assessment studies indicate that in light inlet guide vanes and/or
     and medium industries, 26% of motors exhibit fluctuating loads; 22% of these are in discharge dampers.
     process industries and 35% are in other heavy industries. However, industrial ASD
     installations remain relatively low. The majority of ASD-equipped industrial motor ■■ Determine the load profile for
     systems are 20 horsepower (hp) or less—and often the ASD is installed to improve systems that are in use more
     control over the production process versus energy savings.2 Thus potential energy and
                                                            than 2,000 hours per year.
     costs savings from ASD installations are significant.                          
                                                          ■■ Determine the energy savings
     Variable Frequency Drives                                                      
                                                            and cost effectiveness of
     The electronic pulse-width-modulated variable frequency drive (VFD) is the most com- installing a VFD or magnetically
     mon type of ASD and is the state-of-the-art speed control. Because of energy efficiency coupled ASD motor controller.
     and control capabilities, VFD and motor combinations have replaced constant speed
     motors in virtually every type of industrial plant. Although VFDs have been available for ■■ Consider magnetically coupled
     many years, they are not suited for all applications. Many industrial plants use medium ASDs for medium-voltage
     voltage (> 600 to 6,600 volts [V]) to supply power to motors rated as low as 150 hp.
                                                            motors, when sensitive  
     Semiconductors for medium voltage motor applications are particularly expensive.
                                                            equipment cannot tolerate
     Depending on the situation, other factors that can discourage the use of VFDs include:
                                                            harmonic currents or    
      • Creation of harmonics, which requires installation of line reactors or harmonic filters
                                                            maintenance requirements are
      • Voltage spikes that can lead to early motor failure                         
                                                            high because load vibrations are
      • Motor bearing failures caused by induced shaft currents that flow to ground through
                                                            transferred to motor bearings.
       the bearing’s rolling elements                                               
      • Nuisance tripping                                                           
      • Limitations on the distance between the motor and VFD.                      
     Magnetically Coupled ASDs                                                      
     In contrast to a VFD, a magnetically coupled ASD does not alter the power supplied
     to the motor. With a magnetically coupled ASD, the motor is generally brought up to
     operating speed while unloaded. The motor continues to operate at the rated design
     speed while the magnetic coupling controls the torque transferred and the speed of the
     driven equipment. This works by varying the strength of the magnetic field between
     the motor shaft and the load shaft. The strength of the magnetic field is controlled by
     varying the width of an adjustable air gap or by varying the amount of current applied to
     an electromagnet.                                                              
     Because the load and motor shafts are not directly coupled, vibrations that occur on
     the load side are isolated and not transmitted to the motor. For instance, a newsprint
     products plant installed a magnetically coupled ASD for a 250-hp/2,300-V motor 
     running a centrifugal pump with a bypass flow control valve. This resulted in annual
     energy savings of 633,000 kilowatt-hours. Long-term maintenance costs decreased as
     pump cavitation was eliminated and vibration was dramatically reduced.3        