                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               ADVANCED    MANUFACTURING      OFFICE                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Energy Tips: MOTOR SYSTEMS                                 Motor Systems Tip Sheet #14
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     When   Should  Inverter-Duty                                                   
                                                             Suggested Actions      
     Motors  Be  Specified?                                                         
                                                          ■■ Obtain information from motor
     Electronic adjustable speed drives, known as variable frequency drives (VFD), used to and drive manufacturers about
     be marketed as “usable with any standard motor.” However, premature failures of motor inverter rise times and effects of
     insulation systems began to occur as fast-switching, pulse-width-modulated (PWM) VFDs
                                                            cable length. Use this informa-
     were introduced. The switching rates of modern power semiconductors can lead to voltage
                                                            tion to evaluate the capacity of
     overshoots. These voltage spikes can rapidly damage a motor’s insulation system, resulting in
     premature motor failure.                               existing motors to withstand
                                                            drive-induced voltage stresses.
     Effects of VFDs on Induction Motors                                            
                                                          ■■ Damaging reflected waves are
     The nonsinusoidal variable frequency output of PWM drives has several effects, including
                                                            generally not a problem when
     increased motor losses, inadequate ventilation at lower speeds, increased dielectric stresses
                                                            the distance between the motor
     on motor windings, magnetic noise, and shaft currents. These effects can combine to damage
     a motor’s insulation and severely shorten its useful operating life. and the drive is less than 15 feet.
     High switching rates of modern power semiconductors lead to rapid changes in voltage in ■■ Voltage overshoots are more
     relatively short periods of time, (dV/dt, quantified in units of volts per microsecond). Steep-
                                                            likely to occur with smaller
     fronted waves with large dV/dt or very fast rise times lead to voltage overshoots and other
                                                            motors and drives with faster
     power supply problems.                                                         
                                                            rise times.             
     When the motor impedance is greater than the impedance of the conductor cable between the
     motor and the drive, the voltage waveform will reflect at the motor terminals. This creates a ■■ The potential for damaging
     standing wave (see Figure 1). Longer motor cables favor higher amplitude standing waves.
                                                            reflected waves is especially high
     Voltage spikes have occurred with peak values as high as 2,150 volts (V) in a 480-V system
                                                            when multiple motors are run
     operating at 10% overvoltage. These high spikes can lead to insulation breakdown, which
     results in phase-to-phase or turn-to-turn short circuits, and subsequently overcurrent drive from a single VFD.
     sensor trips.                                                                  
              Figure 1. PWM pulse with reflected voltage or ringing                 
     Preventive measures can be taken to avoid motor failures caused by voltage spikes. These
     include using power conditioning equipment (such as dV/dt filters or load reactors) and
     restricting the distance or cable length between the drive and the motor. Some drive installers
     also specify oversized motors or use of high-temperature resistance Class H insulation.
     Inverter-Duty Motor Designs                                                    
     Most motor manufacturers offer general-purpose, three-phase premium efficiency motors that
     feature “inverter-friendly” insulation systems. These “inverter-ready” motors are suitable for
     use with variable torque loads over a wide speed range.                        
     In contrast, inverter-duty motors are wound with voltage spike-resistant insulation systems.
     Some use inverter-grade magnet wire to minimize the adverse effects of waveforms produced
                                                                                    
                                                                                    