                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               ADVANCED    MANUFACTURING      OFFICE                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Energy Tips: MOTOR SYSTEMS                                 Motor Systems Tip Sheet #7
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Eliminate  Voltage  Unbalance                                                  
                                                             Suggested Actions      
     Voltage unbalance degrades the performance and shortens the life of a three-phase
     motor. Voltage unbalance at the motor terminals can cause current unbalance that is ■■ Periodically monitor voltages at
     far out of proportion to the voltage unbalance. Unbalanced currents lead to torque motor terminals to verify that
     pulsations, increased vibrations and mechanical stresses, increased losses resulting in voltage unbalance is maintained
     lower efficiency, and motor overheating, which reduces winding insulation life.
                                                            below 1%. Consider installing
     Percent voltage unbalance is defined by the National Electrical Manufacturers sensors that send alarms for
     Association (NEMA) as 100 times the absolute value of the maximum deviation of the
                                                            unacceptable values or rates of
     line voltage from the average voltage on a three-phase system, divided by the average
                                                            change of values. ISA100
     voltage. For example, if the measured line voltages are 462, 463, and 455 volts, the
                                                            wireless sensor networks may be
     average is 460 volts. The voltage unbalance is:                                
                                                            of interest.            
                         (460 – 455)                                                
                                x 100 = 1.1%                                        
                           460                                                      
                                                          ■■ Check your electrical system
     It is recommended that voltage unbalances at the motor terminals do not exceed 1%. single-line diagrams to verify
     Unbalances that exceed 1% require derating of the motor, per Figure 20-2 of NEMA that single-phase loads are
     MG-1-2011, and will void most manufacturers’ warranties. Common causes of voltage uniformly distributed.
     unbalance include:                                                             
                                                          ■■ Install ground fault indicators as
      • Faulty operation of power factor correction equipment                       
                                                            required and perform annual
      • Unbalanced or unstable utility supply                                       
                                                            thermographic inspections.
      • Unbalanced transformer bank supplying a three-phase load that is too large for
                                                            Another indicator that voltage
       the bank                                                                     
                                                            unbalance may be a problem is
      • Unevenly distributed single-phase loads on the same power system            
                                                            120-hertz (Hz) vibration. A
      • Unidentified single-phase to ground faults                                  
                                                            finding of 120-Hz vibration
      • An open circuit on the distribution system primary.                         
                                                            should prompt an immediate
     The efficiency of an 1,800 revolutions per minute (RPM), 100-horsepower (hp) motor is check of voltage balance.
     given as a function of voltage unbalance and motor load in Table 1 below. The general
     trend of efficiency reduction with increased voltage unbalance is observed for motors at
     all load conditions.                                                           
     Table 1. Example Motor Efficiency* Under Conditions of Voltage Unbalance       
                              Motor Efficiency, %                                   
        Motor Load                                                                  
                              Voltage Unbalance                                     
         % Full                                                                     
                     Nominal       1%         2.5%                                  
          100         94.4        94.4        93.0                                  
          75          95.2        95.1        93.9                                  
          50          96.1        95.5        94.1                                  
     Source: Washington State University Energy Program                             
     *Results vary depending on motor design, speed, full-load efficiency, and hp rating. Typically, electric
     motors have peak efficiency near 75% load, but this particular motor tested in the lab showed
     otherwise.                                                                     