                                                                                    
  ADVANCED MANUFACTURING OFFICE                                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Frequent stopping and starting, even within NEMA limits, does stress a motor due to
     mechanical flexing of the coils and rotor overheating during acceleration, but there
                                                                 Resources          
     is no known relationship between number of motor starts and normal motor life  
     expectancy. Each start is one factor in the life expectancy and reliability of the motor, National Electrical Manufacturers
     and some reduction in life expectancy and reliability must be accepted when a motor is Association (NEMA)—Visit www.
     continuously applied at the upper range of its starting duty.                  
                                                          nema.org for more information.
     Frequent starting imposes thermal stresses on the motor. Other factors also contribute to When making the decision to stop
     temperature rise. When operating in the upper range of starting duty, take these steps to a motor, refer to NEMA MG 10-
     ensure that you are well within tolerances on other sources of thermal stress: 2001 Energy Management Guide
      • Keep the motor clean so airflow and heat transfer are not impeded for Selection and Use of Fixed
                                                          Frequency Medium AC Squirrel-
      • Allow sufficient rest time between starts for the heat buildup to dissipate (as given in
       NEMA MG 10-2001, Revision 2007)                    Cage Polyphase Induction Motors.
                                                          For large induction motors, refer
      • Keep supply voltage nominal, avoiding voltage unbalance, undervoltage,      
       and harmonics                                      to NEMA MG 1-2011 Motors and
                                                          Generators Part 20.12.    
      • Do not overload the motor                                                   
      • De-rate any motor used in severe ambient environments, such as above 3,000 feet U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)—
       altitude or above 40°C                                                       
                                                          For more information on motor
      • Consider continuous monitoring of motor operating conditions with and motor-driven system
       ISA100-compliant wireless sensor networks.                                   
                                                          efficiency and to download the
     You may find that you can substantially increase the time your motors are shut down
                                                          MotorMaster+ software tool, visit
     without approaching the NEMA MG 10-2001, Revision 2007, starting duty limits. For
                                                          the Advanced Manufacturing
     frequent start-stop applications, special motor system designs or an adjustable speed
                                                          Office (AMO) website at   
     drive might be required, or a clutch/brake may be employed with a constant speed
                                                          manufacturing.energy.gov. 
     motor. In some applications, servo motors may be specified.                    
     References                                                                     
     1“Electrical Efficiency: Spec the Right Motor and Drive for Lifecycle Performance”,
     John Malinowski, Baldor Electric Company, November, 2011.                      
     Additional Information                                                         
      • NEMA MG 1-2011. It provides a table on the maximum inertia load for starting
       induction motors of various ratings. Motors driving loads that do not exceed these
       inertia limits can be started twice in immediate succession when the motor is initially
       at ambient temperature.                                                      
      • NEMA MG 10-2001, Revision 2007. See Table 7, which provides the maximum     
       number of allowable starts per hour for motors of various horsepower and synchro-
       nous speed ratings. The table indicates how frequently motors can be started with a
       rest period between starts and provides a minimum duration for that rest period.
      • For information on wireless sensing technology uses, refer to the U.S. Department
       of Energy’s (DOE) Ways of Using Wireless Technology to Help You Reduce Energy
       Usage at Your Facility. and Nissan North America: How Sub-Metering Changed the
       Way a Plant Does Business.                                                   
                       Manufacturing converts a wide range of raw materials, Advanced Manufacturing Office
                       components, and parts into finished goods that meet market   
                                                        Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy
                       expectations. The Advanced Manufacturing Office (AMO)        
                                                        U.S. Department of Energy   
                       partners with industry, small business, universities, and other
                                                        Washington, DC 20585-0121   
                       stakeholders to identify and invest in emerging technologies with
                       the potential to create high-quality domestic manufacturing jobs manufacturing.energy.gov
                       and enhance the global competitiveness of the United States. 
                                                        DOE/GO-102012-3742 • November 2012
                                Printed with a renewable-source ink on paper containing at least 50% wastepaper, including 10% post consumer waste.