                                                                                    
  ADVANCED MANUFACTURING OFFICE                                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     However, it is a mistake to rely on coupling flexibility for excessive misalignment,
     because flexing of the coupling and of the shaft will exert forces on the motor and
                                                                 Resources          
     driven-equipment bearings. These forces may result in premature bearing, seal, or
     coupling failures, shaft breaking or cracking, and excessive radial and axial vibrations. Electrical Apparatus Service
     Secondary effects include loosening of foundation bolts, and loose or broken coupling Association (EASA)—Visit
     bolts. Operating life is shortened when shafts are misaligned.                 
                                                          www.easa.com for information
                                                          on motor maintenance topics.
     Alignment Tolerances                                                           
     No industry standard on alignment exists. Proper shaft alignment is especially critical U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)—
     when the motor is operated at high speeds. Standard industry norms for alignment For more information on motor
     tolerances are cited in Table 1.                     and motor-driven system   
                                                          efficiency and to download the
      Table 1. Shaft Alignment Tolerances for Direct-Coupled Shafts                 
                                                          MotorMaster+ software tool, visit
                                                          the Advanced Manufacturing
                                      Angular Misalignment                          
                  Parallel Offset (mils)                  Office (AMO) website at   
                                        (mils per inch)                             
      Motor Speed Short Flex Couplings Spacer Couplings   manufacturing.energy.gov. 
        (RPM)                                                                       
                 Excellent Acceptable Excellent Acceptable                          
         900       3.0       6.0       1.2      2.0                                 
         1,200     2.5       4.0      0.9       1.5                                 
         1,800     2.0       3.0      0.6       1.0                                 
        3,600      1.0       1.5      0.3       0.5                                 
     Source: Alan Luedeking, Ludeca, Inc. “Shaft versus Foot Alignment Tolerances: A Critique of the
     Various Approaches,” 2008.                                                     
     In practice, proper alignment is difficult to achieve without using alignment equipment
     such as dial indicators or laser alignment tools. The proper shaft alignment procedure is
     to secure the driven equipment first because moving a pump, for example, would stress
     the connecting piping. Next, install the coupling to the driven equipment. The motor
     should then be moved into proper alignment and joined to the coupling.         
     After the equipment has operated long enough to become temperature stabilized, shut
     it down and immediately recheck alignment. Due to thermal growth, machines that are
     aligned in the “cold” preoperating condition are almost always out of alignment when
     operating temperatures are attained. Many equipment manufacturers publish thermal
     offset values so the alignment technician can correct for thermal growth during the
     initial alignment process.                                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       Manufacturing converts a wide range of raw materials, Advanced Manufacturing Office
                       components, and parts into finished goods that meet market   
                                                        Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy
                       expectations. The Advanced Manufacturing Office (AMO)        
                                                        U.S. Department of Energy   
                       partners with industry, small business, universities, and other
                                                        Washington, DC 20585-0121   
                       stakeholders to identify and invest in emerging technologies with
                       the potential to create high-quality domestic manufacturing jobs manufacturing.energy.gov
                       and enhance the global competitiveness of the United States. 
                                                        DOE/GO-102012-3741 • November 2012
                                Printed with a renewable-source ink on paper containing at least 50% wastepaper, including 10% post consumer waste.