                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               ADVANCED    MANUFACTURING      OFFICE                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Energy Tips: MOTOR SYSTEMS                                 Motor Systems Tip Sheet #10
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Turn Motors   Off When   Not  in Use                                           
                                                             Suggested Actions      
     Motors do not use energy when turned off. Reducing motor operating time by just 10%
     usually saves more energy than replacing a standard efficiency motor with a premium ■■ Keep track of your motors
     efficiency motor. In fact, given that more than 97%1 of the life cycle cost of purchasing through a motor system
     and operating a motor in a typical installation is energy related, turning a motor off 10% management plan. Consider
     of the time could reduce energy costs enough to purchase several new motors. times when motors can be shut
                                                            down, including shift changes,
     However, a belief persists that stopping and starting motors is harmful. Many users
     believe that repeated motor starts will use more energy than constant operation, increase lunch breaks, or during process
     utility demand charges, and shorten motor life. While these opinions are not completely interruptions.
     without basis, they do need to be put into proper perspective.                 
                                                          ■■ Energy saving opportunities
     During starting, a motor accelerates and draws more power than when it is operating
                                                            often exist when motors drive
     steadily at full load. While a typical National Electrical Manufacturers Association
                                                            loads in parallel, such as
     (NEMA) Design B motor may draw from four to eight times the full-load current during
                                                            compressors or pumps. Evaluate
     starting, the power factor is low so the input power is not four to eight times the rated
     load power. Starting usually takes less than 2 seconds and rarely exceeds 10 seconds, sequencing of these motors.
     even for large, high-inertia loads. Just one minute of additional running time consumes
                                                          ■■ Install automatic shutdown
     far more energy than a motor starting event.                                   
                                                            timers so motors will be turned
     Another motor starting concern involves increased utility demand charges. Again, the
                                                            off when they would otherwise
     excess starting demand is small due to the short duration of the motor starting interval.
                                                            be running idle or unloaded for
     Peak monthly demand charges are generally based on a facility’s average energy use
                                                            intervals longer than the rest
     over a fixed or rolling average window of 15 to 60 minutes in duration. Only when start-
                                                            intervals identified in NEMA
     ing large or large groups of motors at once should the user be concerned with peak demand
     charges. Check with your utility to determine how it assesses peak demand charges. MG 10-2001, Revision 2007.
                                                          ■■ Shut down equipment that is
     Starting Stresses                                                              
                                                            energized but not in use for
     Starting stresses a motor by:                                                  
                                                            periods of time longer than
      • Applying higher than rated full-load torque to the shaft during acceleration NEMA recommendations for
      • Applying high magnetic forces to the rotor cage and winding end turns start-run-stop-rest cycles.
      • Heating the stator winding and the rotor cage.                              
                                                          ■■ Consider adjustable speed
     Frequent torque shocks from starting could shorten shaft life through metal fatigue.
                                                            drives, soft starters, wye-delta
     However, most shaft failures are attributed to bearing failures, excessive belt tension,
                                                            starting, or autotransformers to
     misapplication, or creep during storage (large motors). Overheating the stator 
                                                            reduce starting stresses on
     winding and the rotor cage occurs if the hourly number of starts exceeds the NEMA
     recommendations or the duration of rest time between starts is less than the NEMA equipment that requires frequent
     allowable value. Heat from exceeding these limits can degrade winding insulation and starting and stopping.
     cause thermal stressing of the rotor cage, leading to cracks and failed end-ring connections.
     Repeated Motor Starts and Stops                                                
     While it is true that starting stresses a motor, motors are designed to be started. For
     example, motors in applications such as lift pumps or irrigation wells start and stop quite
     frequently, while obtaining service lives of 15 years or more. As long as the frequency
     of starts given in NEMA MG 10-2001, Revision 2007, is not exceeded, motor lifetime is
     not significantly affected.                                                    
     NEMA provides standards for starting duty which consider inertia of the load—an
     important factor in starting stress. NEMA also provides guidance relating to start-run-
     stop-rest cycles that are often employed in energy management programs.        