                                                                                    
  ADVANCED MANUFACTURING OFFICE                                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Motor losses fall into several categories that can be measured in various ways:
                                                                                    
      • Stator winding resistance (I2R) losses                   Resources          
      • Rotor conductor bar and end ring resistance (I2R) losses                    
                                                          U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)—
      • Stator and rotor core losses                      For additional information on
      • Friction and windage losses (including bearing losses, wind resistance, and cooling motor and motor-driven system
       fan load)                                          efficiency measures, to obtain
      • Stray load losses (miscellaneous other losses).   DOE’s MotorMaster+ software, or
                                                          to learn more about training, visit
     The most direct and credible methods of measuring these losses involve considerable
                                                          the Advanced Manufacturing
     labor, equipment, and the availability of electrical power. Power readings must be taken
                                                          Office (AMO) website at   
     with the motor running under load, then uncoupled and running unloaded. Winding
     resistance must be measured and temperature corrections must be performed. manufacturing.energy.gov.
     Simpler but less accurate motor efficiency estimation techniques are available. They
     require fewer field measurements and don’t involve uncoupling the motor from the load.
     These techniques include:                                                      
      • Loss accounting methods. Such methods determine losses using either special 
       dedicated “lab-in-a-box” devices or very accurate conventional instruments,  
       including power meters, thermometers, and micro-ohmmeters. These methods     
       have the potential of being accurate within ±1% to ±3% if carefully applied. The
       necessary instruments are costly, and the process is very time and labor intensive.
       Power meters must be accurate at very low power factors that occur when motors
       operate unloaded.                                                            
      • Slip method. The slip method has largely been discredited as a viable technique for
       estimating motor efficiency. This method computes shaft output power as the rated
       horsepower multiplied by the ratio of measured slip to the slip expected when the
       motor is fully loaded. Operating slip is the difference between synchronous and shaft
       speed, with the full-load slip equal to the difference between the synchronous speed
       and the full-load speed stamped on the motor nameplate.                      
      • MotorMaster+ 4.0. This software tool, developed by the U.S. Department of   
       Energy’s (DOE) Advanced Manufacturing Office (AMO), incorporates several     
       methods for determining motor load. These involve the use of motor nameplate 
       data in conjunction with field measurements of input power, voltage, current,
       and/or operating speed. MotorMaster+ 4.0 automatically selects the best of four
       available load and efficiency estimation methods based on the data entered. Once the
       percent load is known, the software tool obtains efficiency values from embedded
       default part-load efficiency tables. Default efficiency tables are available for motors
       of different enclosure types (open drip-proof and TEFC), horsepower ratings, 
       synchronous speeds, and efficiency classes.                                  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       Manufacturing converts a wide range of raw materials, Advanced Manufacturing Office
                       components, and parts into finished goods that meet market   
                                                        Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy
                       expectations. The Advanced Manufacturing Office (AMO)        
                                                        U.S. Department of Energy   
                       partners with industry, small business, universities, and other
                                                        Washington, DC 20585-0121   
                       stakeholders to identify and invest in emerging technologies with
                       the potential to create high-quality domestic manufacturing jobs manufacturing.energy.gov
                       and enhance the global competitiveness of the United States. 
                                                        DOE/GO-102012-3734 • November 2012
                                Printed with a renewable-source ink on paper containing at least 50% wastepaper, including 10% post consumer waste.