                                                                                    
  ADVANCED MANUFACTURING OFFICE                                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Magnetically coupled ASDs do not have to be housed in a controlled environment.
     They allow for multiple motor starts with no “cool-off period” and are desirable when
                                                                 Resources          
     harmonic distortion cannot be tolerated or if poor power quality would cause excessive
     nuisance trips. This design also inherently provides load seizure protection. Because National Electrical Manufacturers
     magnetically coupled ASDs operate independently of motor power supply voltage, they Association (NEMA)—Visit www.
     are often cost effective in applications with medium-voltage power supplies. These
                                                          nema.org for information on
     ASDs have other advantages, including compatibility with existing standard efficiency
                                                          motor standards, application
     motors, avoidance of additional motor heating and the need for motor de-rating, and
                                                          guides, and technical papers.
     accommodation of shaft thermal expansion.                                      
     Disadvantages of magnetically coupled ASDs include space and weight constraints. U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)—
     Some are not compatible with vertical-shaft motors or belt-driven loads. They are also For more information on motor
     maintenance intensive and require repair by technicians with specialized training. and motor-driven system
                                                          efficiency and to download the
     Magnetically coupled ASDs offer some operating advantages that are desirable for niche
     applications. They provide speed control that can be up to 30% more efficient than MotorMaster+ software tool, visit
     fan damper control and 44% more efficient than using throttling valves for pump flow the Advanced Manufacturing
     control. However, they capture only about 60% of potential energy savings compared Office (AMO) website at
     to conventional VFDs. Relative to a conventional ASD, energy savings decrease as the manufacturing.energy.gov.
     motor operating speed is reduced.4                                             
     References                                                                     
     1 ADM Associates, Inc., Adjustable-Speed Drive Case Studies, prepared for the Wisconsin Center
     for Demand-Side Management, 1994.                                              
     2 Xenergy, Inc., United States Industrial Motor Systems Market Opportunities Assessment,
     prepared for the U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of Industrial Technologies, December 1998.
     3 Northwest Energy Efficiency Alliance, Field Testing the MagnaDrive Coupling Speed Control
     Technology on Northwest Industrial Applications, “Case Study: Ponderay Newsprint, Usk,
     Washington,” 2000.                                                             
     4 Motor Systems Resource Facility, Oregon State University, Product Testing: MagnaDrive,
     Report No. 1, prepared for the Northwest Energy Efficiency Alliance, March 2000.
     Additional References                                                          
     Dan Greenberg, Platts Research and Consulting, Magnetically Coupled Adjustable-Speed Drives:
     Going Where No VFD Has Gone Before, ER-03-18, November 2003.                   
     Quantec, Market Progress Evaluation Report: MagnaDrive, No. 2, prepared for the Northwest
     Energy Efficiency Alliance, Report E02-099, May 2002.                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       Manufacturing converts a wide range of raw materials, Advanced Manufacturing Office
                       components, and parts into finished goods that meet market   
                                                        Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy
                       expectations. The Advanced Manufacturing Office (AMO)        
                                                        U.S. Department of Energy   
                       partners with industry, small business, universities, and other
                                                        Washington, DC 20585-0121   
                       stakeholders to identify and invest in emerging technologies with
                       the potential to create high-quality domestic manufacturing jobs manufacturing.energy.gov
                       and enhance the global competitiveness of the United States. 
                                                        DOE/GO-102012-3738 • November 2012
                                Printed with a renewable-source ink on paper containing at least 50% wastepaper, including 10% post consumer waste.