                                                                                    
  ADVANCED MANUFACTURING OFFICE                                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     by VFDs. Other designs are wound with adjacent coils that are separated to minimize voltage
     potential. Improved insulation systems reduce degradation of motors that are subjected to
                                                                 Resources          
     transient voltage spikes. A greater thickness or buildup of premium varnish (through multiple
     dips and bakes) minimizes the potential for internal voids, and a motor with a lower heat rise National Electrical Manufacturers
     design has increased resistance to voltage stresses. Manufacturing quality also affects the
                                                          Association (NEMA)—Visit www.
     corona inception voltage (CIV), the point at which partial electrical discharges occur because
                                                          nema.org for information on
     of ionization of air around the conductor. CIV is a measure of the ability of a motor’s
     windings to withstand voltage stresses.              motor standards, application
                                                          guides, and technical papers.
     NEMA MG 1-2011, Part 31, specifies that insulation systems for definite-purpose, low- Refer to the 2001 NEMA Standards
     voltage (≤ 600 V) inverter-duty motors should be designed to withstand an upper limit of 3.1
                                                          Publication Application Guide for
     times the motor’s rated line-to-line voltage. This is equivalent to an upper limit of 1,426 peak
                                                          AC Adjustable Speed Drives.
     volts at the motor terminals for a motor rated at 460 V. Rise times must equal or exceed 0.1
     microsecond. These motors can be used without additional filters or load reactors provided
                                                          U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)—
     that voltage overshoots do not exceed the upper limit at the motor terminals.  
                                                          For more information on motor
     Medium-voltage inverter-duty motors with a base rating that exceeds 600 V must be able to
                                                          and motor-driven system   
     withstand a peak voltage equal to 2.04 times the motor’s rated line-to-line voltage. Rise times
                                                          efficiency and to download the
     must equal or exceed 1 microsecond.                                            
                                                          MotorMaster+ software tool, visit
     Inverter-duty motors are also designed for wider constant-torque speed ranges than can be
                                                          the Advanced Manufacturing
     provided with a general-purpose motor. While a premium efficiency, totally enclosed fan-
                                                          Office (AMO) website at   
     cooled 10-hp motor may be capable of a 10:1 constant-torque speed range, an inverter-duty
     motor is capable of providing full-rated torque at zero speed as well as operating well over its manufacturing.energy.gov.
     base speed. Use of inverter-duty motors for variable torque loads is overkill as inverter-ready
     general-purpose motors are well suited for VFD control with variable torque loads.
     The insulation system on a 208/230-V motor is identical to that of a 460-V motor. Thus,
     voltage spikes produced by inverters on 208- or 230-V systems are unlikely to cause
     insulation damage at any cable length or drive carrier frequency.              
     Larger inverter-duty motors often have a constant-speed auxiliary blower to provide adequate
     cooling for motors operating at low speeds. Above the 500 frame size, inverter-duty motors
     should have both bearings insulated and be equipped with a shaft grounding brush with a
     ground strap from the motor to the drive case.                                 
                     Motor Selection Guidelines                                     
      NEMA MG 1-2011, Part 30, provides performance standards for general-purpose   
      motors used with VFDs. When operated under usual service conditions, no       
      significant reduction in service life should occur if the peak voltage at the motor
      terminals is limited to 1,000 V and rise times equal and exceed 2 microseconds.
      Contact the motor manufacturer for guidance on motor/drive compatibility when 
      peak voltages are expected to exceed 1,000 V or rise times will be less than 2
      microseconds. A definite-purpose, inverter-duty motor and/or harmonic suppression
      filter, load reactor, or other voltage conditioning equipment may be required.
      Specify inverter-duty motors when operating at extremely low speeds, particularly
      when serving a constant torque load, or when operating over base speed.       
      When an inverter-duty motor is required, ensure that it is designed and       
      manufactured to meet the most current specifications defined by NEMA MG 1     
      Section IV, “Performance Standards Applying to All Machines,” Part 31, “Definite-
      Purpose Inverter-Fed Polyphase Motors.”                                       
                       Manufacturing converts a wide range of raw materials, Advanced Manufacturing Office
                       components, and parts into finished goods that meet market   
                                                        Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy
                       expectations. The Advanced Manufacturing Office (AMO)        
                                                        U.S. Department of Energy   
                       partners with industry, small business, universities, and other
                                                        Washington, DC 20585-0121   
                       stakeholders to identify and invest in emerging technologies with
                       the potential to create high-quality domestic manufacturing jobs manufacturing.energy.gov
                       and enhance the global competitiveness of the United States. 
                                                        DOE/GO-102012-3744 • November 2012
                                Printed with a renewable-source ink on paper containing at least 50% wastepaper, including 10% post consumer waste.