                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               ADVANCED    MANUFACTURING      OFFICE                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Energy Tips: MOTOR SYSTEMS                                 Motor Systems Tip Sheet #3
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Extend  the  Operating   Life of Your Motor                                    
                                                             Suggested Actions      
     Why Do Motors Fail?                                                            
                                                          ■■ Evaluate and select a motor
     Certain components of motors degrade with time and operating stress. Electrical
                                                            repair service center. Ask the
     insulation weakens over time with exposure to voltage unbalance, over and      
     undervoltage, voltage disturbances, and temperature. Contact between moving surfaces service center to conduct a root
     causes wear. Wear is affected by dirt, moisture, and corrosive fumes and is greatly cause failure analysis and
     accelerated when lubricant is misapplied, becomes overheated or contaminated, or is not
                                                            confirm proper repair. A
     replaced at regular intervals. When any components are degraded beyond the point of
                                                            competent motor service center
     economical repair or replacement, the motor’s economic life ends.              
                                                            can often pinpoint failure modes
     For the smallest and least expensive standard efficiency motors, the motor should be put
                                                            and indicate optional features or
     out of service and replaced when a key component, such as a bearing, fails. Depending
                                                            rebuild methods to strengthen
     on type and replacement cost, larger standard motors—up to 20 or 50 horsepower 
     (hp) —may be refurbished and get new bearings but are often scrapped after a wind- new and rewound motors
     ing failure. Still larger and more expensive motors may be refurbished and rewound to against critical stresses.
     extend life indefinitely. An economic analysis should always be completed before motor
     failure to ensure that the appropriate repair/replacement decision is made. ■■ Follow motor manufacturers’
                                                            recommendations and user
     How Long Do Motors Last?                                                       
                                                            guides to protect out-of-service
     The answer to how long motors last will vary and is dependent upon many factors. Some
                                                            motors from humidity, vibration,
     manufacturers estimate 30,000 hours, while others state 40,000 hours. Some will say
                                                            and corrosion exposure. 
     “it depends.” One thing is clear—a motor should last much longer with a conscientious
     motor systems maintenance plan than without one.                               
                                                          ■■ Establish and follow a good
     Motor life can range from less than two years to several decades under particular predictive and preventive
     circumstances. In the best circumstances, degradation still proceeds and a failure
                                                            maintenance program.    
     eventually will occur. Much of this progressive deterioration can be detected by modern
     predictive maintenance techniques to enable life-extending intervention.       
     Even with excellent selection and care, motors may suffer short lifetimes in unavoidably
     severe environments. In some industries, motors are exposed to contaminants that are
     severely corrosive, abrasive, and/or electrically conductive. In such cases, motor life can
     be extended by purchasing special motors, such as those conforming to the Institute of
     Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 841 specifications, or other severe-duty or
     corrosion-resistant models. Alternatively, stock motors can be modified by a competent
     service center.                                                                
     The operating environment, conditions of use (or misuse), and quality of preventive
     maintenance will determine how quickly motor parts degrade. Higher temperatures
     shorten motor life. For every 10°C rise in operating temperature, the insulation life is
     reduced by half. This can mislead one to think that purchasing new motors with higher
     insulation temperature ratings will significantly increase motor life. This is not always
     true, because new motors designed with higher insulation thermal ratings may actually
     operate at higher internal temperatures (as permitted by the higher thermal rating).
     Increasing the thermal rating during rewinding, for example, from Class B (130°C) to
     Class H (180°C), does increase the winding life.                               
     The best safeguard against thermal damage is to mitigate conditions that contribute to
     overheating. These include dirt, under and overvoltage, voltage unbalance, harmonics,
     high ambient temperature, poor ventilation, and overload operation (even within the
     service factor).                                                               