                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               ADVANCED    MANUFACTURING      OFFICE                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Energy Tips: MOTOR SYSTEMS                                 Motor Systems Tip Sheet #15
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Minimize  Adverse   Motor   and                                                
                                                             Suggested Actions      
     Adjustable  Speed   Drive  Interactions                                        
                                                          ■■ To best avoid or mitigate voltage
     Electronic adjustable speed drives (ASDs) are extremely efficient and valuable assets to overshoots, consider locating the
     motor systems. They allow precise process control and provide energy savings within drive close to the motor. Where
     systems that do not need to operate continuously at full output. this is not possible, consider
     The most common ASD design sold today is the pulse-width-modulated (PWM) variable installing filtering devices such as:
     frequency drive (VFD) with a fast-rise-time insulated gate bipolar transistor (IGBT)
                                                            – Line inductors or load reactors
     to reduce switching losses and noise levels. However, higher carrier frequencies and
     faster rise-time transistors on PWM VFDs can produce voltage spikes or overshoots that at the drive end of the cable
     can stress motor windings and bearings. Fortunately, these problems can be eliminated
                                                            – dV/dt filters.        
     through proper design and equipment selection.                                 
                                                          ■■ Consider purchase of an inverter-
     VFD Characteristics                                                            
                                                            duty motor. See Motor Systems
     All VFDs rectify the 60-hertz (Hz) fixed-voltage alternating current (AC) to direct
                                                            Tip Sheet #14 When Should
     current (DC) and use an inverter to simulate an adjustable frequency and variable-
                                                            Inverter-Duty Motors Be 
     voltage AC output. Transistors, or electronic “switches,” create the AC voltage output
                                                            Specified? for inverter-duty
     but have very high losses when they create wave shapes other than square waves.
                                                            motor performance standards.
                                                          ■■ Minimize or eliminate problems
                                                            of current flow across the rolling
                                                            elements of the motor’s bearings
                                                            by isolating both bearings
                                                            and/or using a shaft-grounding
                                                            brush. Install the insulated
                                                            bearing arrangement and shaft
                                                            grounding brush on the  
                                                            in-service motor and any
                Figure 1. Sine wave overlaid on square carrier waves designated spare.
     To minimize switching losses and approximate sine waves, VFDs operate these switches ■■ VFDs with oscillating carrier
     full-on or full-off, creating square waves of much higher frequency than the fundamental
                                                            frequencies may contribute to
     frequency, usually between 2 kilocycles per second (kHz) and 20 kHz. This is called a
                                                            bearing current flows. Correct
     carrier wave, as shown in Figure 1. Each on-portion of the carrier wave is called a pulse,
     and the duration of on-time of each pulse is called the pulse width. The pulses do not setup of the drive and proper
     turn on instantaneously; there is a brief rise time.   cabling and grounding practices
                                                            may help reduce bearing 
     Different types of transistors used in drives have different rise times. Voltage spikes
     originate with fast rise time, and carrier frequencies above 5 kHz are likely to cause damage, called fluting, which
     bearing damage unless protective measures are taken.   occurs as a result of VFD-
                                                            induced shaft currents. 
     Design Considerations                                                          
     Several design considerations should be taken into account when purchasing a VFD or
     fixing problems with an existing one. On new installations, ensure that no harm comes
     to motors by minimizing the cable length from the VFD to the motor. VFDs can produce
     voltage overshoots or spikes with the increase over the normal peak voltage dependent
     upon both cable length and rise time.                                          
               lamroN                                                               
               revO                                                                 
               esaercnI                                                             
                reilpitluM                                                          
                egatloV                                                             
                kaeP                                                                
                 2.00                                                               
                  1.80               500’ Cable                                     
                  1.60                                                              
                               200’ Cable                                           
                  1.40                                                              
                            100’ Cable                                              
                  1.20    5500’’ CCaabbllee                                         
                  1.00                                                              
                           Rise Time (µs)                                           
                      TTBBGGII                                                      
                        1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0                                         