                                                                                    
  ADVANCED MANUFACTURING OFFICE                                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     The NEMA table, from NEMA MG 1-2011 Motors and Generators, which is available  
     for purchase from www.nema.org, actually continues all the way to letter V with current
                                                                 Resources          
     increasing about 12.3% for each letter increment. Only small and non-NEMA Design B
     motors have codes beyond L.                          National Electrical Manufacturers
                                                          Association (NEMA)—For    
     The ratio of peak inrush to LRC tends to increase with higher efficiency motors due to
     their lower power factor under locked rotor conditions. information on premium 
                                                          efficiency motor standards, see
     While NEMA Design B standards limit LRC, no standard limits the peak-inrush current.
                                                          Motor Systems Tip Sheet #1
     Fortunately, peak-inrush current usually is not a problem because it lasts only a few
                                                          entitled When to Purchase 
     milliseconds. However, it can be an issue when the motor controller uses instantaneous
     magnetic-only circuit protectors that react in less than a single AC cycle. This is because Premium Efficiency Motors or visit
     peak inrush can be as high as 2.8 times the RMS locked rotor current and may exceed www.nema.org.
     the circuit protector current setting.                                         
                                                          U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)—
     A motor may trip on peak-inrush current and start successfully on the next attempt. The
                                                          For more information on motor
     exact peak-inrush current depends on the moment when contacts close in the AC voltage
                                                          and motor-driven system   
     cycle, and how close to simultaneously the three-phase contacts close.         
                                                          efficiency and to download the
     Nuisance trips are unlikely to occur in situations without instantaneous magnetic-only MotorMaster+ software tool, visit
     circuit protectors when the replacement motor is a premium efficiency Design B motor the Advanced Manufacturing
     of the same speed and horsepower as the original unit. Even if instantaneous magnetic-
                                                          Office (AMO) website at   
     only circuit protectors are present, nuisance trips may not happen. Nuisance trips should
                                                          manufacturing.energy.gov. 
     not be an issue with motors that are controlled with soft starters or adjustable speed
     drives. Many motor manufacturers offer premium efficiency Design A motors that meet
     Design B torque requirements but exceed Design B locked-rotor current limits. Some of
     the most efficient motors are Design A, which do not have inrush current restrictions, so
     do not limit choices to Design B unless LRC concerns exist.                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       Manufacturing converts a wide range of raw materials, Advanced Manufacturing Office
                       components, and parts into finished goods that meet market   
                                                        Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy
                       expectations. The Advanced Manufacturing Office (AMO)        
                                                        U.S. Department of Energy   
                       partners with industry, small business, universities, and other
                                                        Washington, DC 20585-0121   
                       stakeholders to identify and invest in emerging technologies with
                       the potential to create high-quality domestic manufacturing jobs manufacturing.energy.gov
                       and enhance the global competitiveness of the United States. 
                                                        DOE/GO-102012-3731 • November 2012
                                Printed with a renewable-source ink on paper containing at least 50% wastepaper, including 10% post consumer waste.