                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               ADVANCED    MANUFACTURING      OFFICE                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Energy Tips: MOTOR SYSTEMS                                 Motor Systems Tip Sheet #6
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Avoid  Nuisance   Tripping  with                                               
                                                             Suggested Actions      
     Premium   Efficiency  Motors                                                   
                                                          ■■ Make sure power factor 
     In most cases, upgrading to premium efficiency motors has no noticeable impact on correction capacitors are
     the electrical system. However, in rare cases nuisance trips can occur during start-up.
                                                            installed ahead of the starter.
     Addressing this topic requires an understanding of starting current.           
                                                          ■■ Refer to Section 430 of the
     The National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) recognizes and describes
     two components of starting current: instantaneous peak inrush and locked rotor current latest National Electrical Code
     (LRC). Nuisance tripping primarily has been associated with the instantaneous peak (NEC) for guidance on increasing
     inrush, which is a momentary current transient that occurs immediately (within half the instantaneous trip level of
     an AC cycle) after contact closure. LRC is the root-mean-square (RMS) current that is your circuit protector. The code
     established following the peak inrush; the current remains near the locked rotor value
                                                            has been modified to allow
     during acceleration until the motor approaches its operating speed. (Note: The terms
                                                            adjustments to a greater allowable
     inrush or starting current are often used to mean locked rotor current.)       
                                                            trip setting when nuisance trips
     Premium efficiency motors have slightly higher LRCs and locked rotor code letters than occur. Note that the code can be
     lower efficiency motors of the same rating. However, most premium efficiency motors
                                                            complicated and exceptions do
     are NEMA Design B and are subject to the same maximum allowable LRC as their   
                                                            exist. Don’t hesitate to contact a
     standard efficiency counterparts. LRC for specific new motor models can be looked up
                                                            licensed professional electrical
     in the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) Advanced Manufacturing Office’s (AMO) 
                                                            engineer to resolve motor
     MotorMaster+ 4.0 software tool or deciphered from the locked-rotor code letter on the
     motor nameplate. This letter, usually just designated as “code,” is not the same as the protection problems.
     motor design letter code. Locked rotor code expresses current in kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
                                                          ■■ If adjusting the trip setting is not
     per horsepower (hp), or kVA/hp. International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC)
     or metric motors do not use NEMA-defined code letters. The NEMA code letters are sufficient, consider replacing the
     defined as follows:                                    circuit protector with one that
                                                            has a mechanical delay that
                 Table 1. NEMA Locked-Rotor Code Letters    allows the motor to ride through
                                                            half a cycle of current above the
                                                            nominal setting.        
                      Locked-Rotor Code, kVA/hp                                     
                   A   0–3.15    G  5.6–6.3                                         
                   B   3.15–3.55 H   6.3–7.1                                        
                   C   3.55–4.0  I   7.1–8.0                                        
                   D   4.0–4.5   J  8.0–9.0                                         
                   E   4.5–5.0   K  9.0–10.0                                        
                   F   5.0–5.6   L  10.0–11.2                                       
     For example, the maximum LRC for a Code C, 460-volt, 100-hp motor is determined
     as follows:                                                                    
     LR Current = Motor Horsepower x (Maximum kVA/hp/Supply Voltage in kV) / √3     
               = 100 hp x {(4.0 kVA/hp / 0.46 kV) / √3}                             
               = 502 Amps                                                           