                                                                                    
  ADVANCED MANUFACTURING OFFICE                                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                 Resources          
                                                                                    
                                                          National Electrical Manufacturers
                                                          Association (NEMA)—Visit www.
                                                          nema.org for information on
                                                          motor standards, application
                                                          guides, and technical papers.
                                                                                    
                                                          U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)—
                                                          For more information on motor
           Figure 2. Effect of cable length on voltage increase and motor-driven system
           Source: John Fluke Manufacturing Company       efficiency and to download the
                                                          MotorMaster+ software tool, visit
     In Figure 2, the voltage increase is plotted against rise time in microseconds. Rise
     time is the time required for the voltage to increase from 10% to 90% of its steady- the Advanced Manufacturing
     state value. The rise time is a characteristic of the power transistor switches and can be Office (AMO) website at
     provided by the drive supplier. Modern IGBT switches operate well down toward the manufacturing.energy.gov.
     left side of the graph, so cable lengths of 50 feet or more almost always need mitigation.
     Longer cables reflect the voltage rise so that the reflections reinforce the original pulse
     rise. This produces electrical resonance or “ringing” characterized by an oscillating
     voltage overshoot. With shorter cables, rapid rise time is not a problem. Review Figure
     2 to determine voltage increase for a given rise time and cable length, and compare the
     result with the maximum values described below.                                
     Existing general-purpose low-voltage motors may work fine with PWM VFDs if peak
     voltages due to ringing are held below 1,000 volts. If high-frequency voltage overshoots
     exceed 1,000 volts, electrical stresses can cause a turn-to-turn short within a motor coil
     group, usually within the first couple of turns.                               
     Voltage overshoot is best avoided by locating the drive close to the motor. If a short cable
     run is not possible, a filtering device must be used. Sometimes VFD manufacturers provide
     a filter device with the drive or even in the drive cabinet. There are two common filter
     arrangements: the first uses line inductors (sometimes called load reactors), which should
     be placed at the drive end of the cable; and the second uses dV/dt filters. A tuned resistor-
     inductor filter increases the voltage rise time and effectively reduces dV/dt. There are some
     losses associated with the filters, so keeping cables short remains the best option.
     The fast rise time pulses from a PWM VFD can also create a potentially harmful current
     flow in bearings even when overvoltage is not significant. Causes include common
     mode voltage problems and/or phase voltage unbalance on the VFD input. Capacitive
     coupling, resulting from irregular current waveforms and ground-mode currents, can
     damage bearings due to formation of a high-frequency voltage potential on the motor
     shaft that results in current flow across the bearing rolling elements. Problems also can
     occur in driven-load bearings if insulated couplings are not used. Reduce these problems by:
      • Reducing the carrier frequency of the VFD to between 2 kHz and 5 kHz        
      • Using a dedicated, low-impedance ground wire from the motor frame to the case drives
      • Selecting a suitable cable (i.e., symmetrical with all three phases equally spaced
       around the ground conductor)                                                 
      • Selecting and matching cable impedance for the VFD.                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                Printed with a renewable-source ink on paper containing at least 50% wastepaper, including 10% post consumer waste.
          lamroN                                                                    
          revO                                                                      
          esaercnI                                                                  
            reilpitluM                                                              
            egatloV                                                                 
            kaeP                                                                    
              2.00                                                                  
              1.80                                                                  
                                        500’ Cable                                  
              1.60                                                                  
                                200’ Cable                                          
              1.40           100’ Cable                                             
              1.20        5500’’ CCaabbllee                                         
              1.00                                                                  
                            Rise Time (µs)                                          
                    TTBBGGII                                                        
                      1.0   2.0   3.0   4.0  5.0                                    
                       MMaannuuffaaccttuurriinngg ccoonnvveerrttss aa wwiiddee rraannggee ooff rraaww mmaatteerriaialsls, , Advanced Manufacturing Office
                       ccoommppoonneennttss,, aanndd ppaarrttss iinnttoo fifinniisshheedd ggooooddss tthhaatt m meeeett m maarrkkeett
                                                        Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy
                       eexxppeeccttaattiioonnss.. TThhee AAddvvaanncceedd MMaannuuffaaccttuurriinngg OOffifficcee ( (AAMMOO))
                                                        U.S. Department of Energy   
                       ppaarrttnneerrss wwiitthh iinndduussttrryy,, ssmmaallll bbuussiinneessss,, uunniviveerrssititieiess, ,a anndd o oththeer r
                                                        Washington, DC 20585-0121   
                       ssttaakkeehhoollddeerrss ttoo iiddeennttiiffyy aanndd iinnvveesstt inin e emmeerrgginingg t teecchhnnoolologgieiess w witihth
                       tthhee ppootteennttiiaall ttoo ccrreeaattee hhiigghh--qquuaallitityy ddoommeesstticic m maannuuffaaccttuurirningg j ojobbss manufacturing.energy.gov
                       aanndd eennhhaannccee tthhee gglloobbaall ccoommppeettiittiivveenneessss ooff tthhee U Unnititeedd S Sttaatetess..
                                                        DOE/GO-102012-3739 • November 2012