                                                                                    
  ADVANCED MANUFACTURING OFFICE                                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
     Bearing failures account for nearly two-thirds of all motor failures.1 If not detected
     in time, the failing bearing can cause overheating and damage insulation, or can fail
                                                                 Resources          
     drastically and do irreparable mechanical damage to the motor. Vibration trending and
     thermal scanning can be used to detect bearing problems and allow intervention before National Electrical Manufacturers
     such damage occurs.                                  Association (NEMA)—For    
     A bearing L is defined by International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and information on NEMA Premium™
            10                                                                      
     American Bearing Manufacturers Association (ABMA) standards as the life that 90% standards, visit www.nema.org.
     of a sufficiently large group of apparently identical bearings can be expected to reach
     or exceed. The median or average life, sometimes called mean time between failure, Electrical Apparatus Service
     is about five times the calculated basic rating life.2 With bearings often implicated Association (EASA)—Provides
     in motor failures, the L rating of a bearing may be cause for concern. For fixed guidelines on motor repair/rewind
                  10h                                                               
     operating conditions, a longer L rating implies a longer bearing life. The bearing practices at www.easa.com.
                       10h                                                          
     service life under actual operating conditions is affected by excessive lubricant use,
     incorrect lubrication interval, contaminated lubricant, use of an incorrect lubricant, Motor Decisions Matter—Download
     excessive vibration, misaligned couplings, or excessive belt tension. Power quality a motor management planning kit
     problems and electronic adjustable speed drive–induced bearing currents also may at www.motorsmatter.org that
     result in premature bearing failure (see Motor Systems Tip Sheet #15, Minimize 
                                                          contains advice on building your
     Adverse Motor and Adjustable Speed Drive Interactions).                        
                                                          in-plant motor inventory, decision
     Ensure that motors are not exposed to loading or operating conditions in excess of rules, critical planning tips, and
     limitations defined in manufacturer specifications and National Electrical Manufacturers motor replacement.
     Association (NEMA) standard MG1. This NEMA standard defines limits for ambient 
     temperature, voltage variation, voltage unbalance, and frequency of starts. U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)—
                                                          For more information on motor
     References                                                                     
                                                          and motor-driven system efficiency
     1Bonnett, Austin H. and Chuck Yung. “A Construction, Performance and Reliability and to download the MotorMaster+
     Comparison for Pre-EPAct, EPAct and Premium-Efficient Motors.” Institute of software tool, visit the Advanced
     Electrical and Electronics Engineers Paper No. PCIC-2006-7.                    
                                                          Manufacturing Office (AMO)
     2Snyder, Daniel R. Snyder. “The Meaning of Bearing Life” Machine Design, website at
     April 12, 2012.                                      manufacturing.energy.gov. 
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       Manufacturing converts a wide range of raw materials, Advanced Manufacturing Office
                       components, and parts into finished goods that meet market   
                                                        Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy
                       expectations. The Advanced Manufacturing Office (AMO)        
                                                        U.S. Department of Energy   
                       partners with industry, small business, universities, and other
                                                        Washington, DC 20585-0121   
                       stakeholders to identify and invest in emerging technologies with
                       the potential to create high-quality domestic manufacturing jobs manufacturing.energy.gov
                       and enhance the global competitiveness of the United States. 
                                                        DOE/GO-102012-3735 • November 2012
                                Printed with a renewable-source ink on paper containing at least 50% wastepaper, including 10% post consumer waste.