                                                                                    
  ADVANCED MANUFACTURING OFFICE                                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                 Resources          
                                                                                    
                                                          U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)—
                                                          For more information on motor
                                                          and motor-driven system   
                                                          efficiency and to download the
                                                          MotorMaster+ software tool, visit
                                                          the Advanced Manufacturing
     A notched belt, left, runs cooler and has a higher efficiency than a standard V-belt. A synchronous belt, Office (AMO) website at
     right, can maintain high efficiency over a wide load range and requires minimal maintenance. Images
                                                          manufacturing.energy.gov. 
     courtesy of ©Gates Corporation                                                 
     Further Considerations                                                         
     For centrifugal fans and pumps, which exhibit a strong relationship between operating
     speed and power, synchronous belt sprockets must be selected that take into account
     the absence of belt slippage. Fluid flow, pressure, and operating costs could actually
     increase if slippage is reduced and a centrifugal load is driven at a slightly higher
     operating speed.                                                               
     Cost effectiveness improves when notched or synchronous belts are installed at the end
     of V-belt life or when a belt change out is scheduled. When completing a belt retrofit/
     efficiency upgrade, a properly designed synchronous belt drive should match the
     required rotating equipment speed and not rely on a speed that is calculated based on
     existing sheave diameters. Application engineers also need to understand application
     requirements and determine the pulley center-to-center distance, operating equipment
     speed, speed ratio, shaft sizes, and transmitted horsepower.                   
     Synchronous belts are the most efficient choice. However, notched belts may be a better
     choice when vibration damping is needed or shock loads cause abrupt torque changes
     that could shear a synchronous belt’s teeth. Noise from synchronous belts might be
     objectionable in some applications.                                            
     References                                                                     
     1Mleziva, Brian, Greenheck Fan Corporation, “Ensuring Proper Fan-Belt Tension,”
     HPAC Engineering, July 2011.                                                   
     2Gates Rubber Company, “Synchronous Belt Drives Restore Energy Savings,”       
     December 1997.                                                                 
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       Manufacturing converts a wide range of raw materials, Advanced Manufacturing Office
                       components, and parts into finished goods that meet market   
                                                        Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy
                       expectations. The Advanced Manufacturing Office (AMO)        
                                                        U.S. Department of Energy   
                       partners with industry, small business, universities, and other
                                                        Washington, DC 20585-0121   
                       stakeholders to identify and invest in emerging technologies with
                       the potential to create high-quality domestic manufacturing jobs manufacturing.energy.gov
                       and enhance the global competitiveness of the United States. 
                                                        DOE/GO-102012-3740 • November 2012
                                Printed with a renewable-source ink on paper containing at least 50% wastepaper, including 10% post consumer waste.